# SIE498-Predictive-Water-Analysis-Tool

In the desert Southwest Region, agricultural irrigation water is ordered by growers, through their supporting water district, from the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation (USBR). 
Our sponsor, the Bard Water District (BWD), receives water order cards from growers twice a week, and then places a weekly water order with the Imperial Irrigation District (IID). The water order is completed every Wednesday for the following week, starting Monday and ending on Sunday. Irrigation water orders must be placed in advance of planned use in order to account for delivery time from reservoirs. 
The water order is placed as a single measurement, cubic feet per second (CFS), per day, per week. Once water is diverted into the BWD system it only flows for 12 hours a day. However, the IID requires that the BWD order their water in CFS required over a 24 hour period. For example, if the BWD needs 50 CFS for a 12 hour day they will place an order for 100 CFS. The USBR determines the efficiency of the BWD water ordering based on the difference between the water ordered and the water diverted into the BWD. The remaining number is reported out as Water Ordered Not Diverted (WOND). Currently the BWD is running at approximately 73% utilization efficiency. 
Growers will determine their daily need for water and then place orders twice a week, once on Monday and again on Friday. The orders placed on Monday are for water usage from Thursday through Sunday and orders placed on Friday are for usage from Monday through Wednesday. There are various factors that growers use to determine daily water usage which can include, crop type, soil type, weather, harvest date and historical grower practices. These factors can change from day to day and even though advances in sensor and communications technology make it possible for growers to draw on an increasing volume of data to support their irrigation water ordering decisions there is still a need for refinement. 
Irrigation water in the desert Southwest Region is a finite resource, therefore optimum utilization efficiency is desirable; accuracy and precision in irrigation water ordering can contribute to utilization efficiency.


The purpose of this engineering effort is to design, prototype, test, and deliver a computer program capable of receiving data relevant to irrigation water order forecasting, performing analysis on that data to generate an irrigation water order forecast, 
and employing machine learning techniques to generate more accurate and precise irrigation water order forecasts over time; 
and to render an existing irrigation water distribution system in simulation to demonstrate the efficacy of the irrigation water order forecasting program.
